#1You can't move that way.#2Nothing happens.#2.1Nothing seems to happen.#2.2I don't think that had any effect on anything.#2.3I don't know how to apply that word in this situation.#2.4That had little effect if any at all.#3The fissure is too wide to jump.#4 You are at the bottom of a pit with a broken neck.#5The bottle is already filled!#6The bear eagerly wolfs down the food and becomes calm and friendly.#7The plant surges upwards, reaching halfway to the hole above you.#8The plant grows explosively, almost filling the bottom of the pit.#9You overwatered the plant, you fool!#10 The grate is locked.#11The grate is unlocked.#12The bear is quite ferocious, and will no doubt tear youto shreds if you approach it.#13 The chain is unlocked and the bear is free.#14A crystal bridge now spans the fissure.#15The bridge vanishes.#16It is beyond your power to do that.#17The clam opens momentarily, and a glistening pearl falls outand rolls away.  Goodness, this must really be an oyster.(I never was any good at identifying bivalves, anyway.)#18 I can't close that.#19The oil has freed up the hinges, and with a slight push, thedoor squeaks open.#20I can't eat.#21How can I drink that?#22"Glug, glug, glug, belch!"#23It doesn't want to eat anything (except maybe you!)#24You fool!  Dwarves only eat coal!  Now you've made him reallymad!#25Trolls are brothers of the rocks and have skin like that of arhinocerous.  He fends off your blows effortlessly.#26The troll catches the axe, examines it, and tosses it back to you saying, "good workmanship, but not very valuable."#27The troll catches your treasure and scurries away.#28The bear lumbers toward the troll, who emits a shriek and fleesin terror.  The bear soon gives up the pursuit.#29You attack a dwarf, but he jumps out of the way.#30You killed a little dwarf.  The body vanishes in a cloud ofgreasy black smoke.#31There is a threatening little dwarf in the room with you!#32One sharp nasty knife is thrown at you!#33A bearded pirate steps from the shadows "har har", hechortles, "I'll jest take this booty an' hide it in me chestdeep in the maze!"  He snatches your treasure and vanishesinto the gloom.#34There are strange whispering noises from the darkness behind you.#35The grate is open.#36The grate is locked.#37The bird was unafraid when you entered, but it becomes frightenedand it flutters up out of your reach.#38The dome is unclimbable.#39A crystal bridge spans the fissure.#40A huge fierce green snake bars the way!#41A hollow voice says "plugh".#42The vase is now resting on the pillow.#43Crash! Tinkle! The ming vase shatters into worthlesscrockery.#44You fell into a pit and broke every bone in your body!#45It is now pitch dark.  If you proceed you may fall into a pit.#46The nest of eggs has vanished!#47There is a tiny plant here, murmuring "water, water".#48There is a twelve foot beanstalk poking out of the pit,bellowing "Water, Water!"#49A giant beanstalk stretches clear to the ceiling and throughthe hole at the top.#50You can't get by the snake.#51The dragon has a rather "volatile" personality, and he will probably incinerate you if you get any closer.#52You have crawled through some little holes and have wound upback in the main passage.#53Something you're carrying won't fit through the tunnel.#54Your load is too heavy.  You'd best take inventory and drop something first.#55The troll insists you throw him a treasure before you maycross.#56The troll pops from under the bridge and blocks your way.#57A rusty iron door obstructs the passage to the north.#58The bear will bite off your hand.  Besides, the chain is lockedto the wall.#59It's rather difficult to move a twenty-ton dragon, consideringhe is lying on the rug.#60The vase is now resting on the pillow.#61A valiant attempt!#61.1Nice try!#61.2A valliant attempt, but you're not that strong!#61.3Don't be silly!#61.4Do you have any idea on how to do that?#62A huge dragon blocks the way.  The dragon is lying on a persianrug.#63A burly troll stands beside the bridge, blocking your way.#64There is a ferocious cave bear eyeing you from the end of the room!#65The bear is locked to wall by a golden chain!#66There is a calm, friendly bear locked to the wall.#67You are being followed by a large friendly bear.#68With what?  Your bare hands?#69Congratulations!  You have just killed a huge dragonwith your bare hands.  (Hard to believe, ain't it?)#70Attacking it is both dangerous and doesn't work.#71There is nothing here to attack.#72How can you do that to more than one thing at a time?#73Thanks, it was delicious!#74I see nothing special about that.#75Oh dear, you seem to have gotten yourself killed.  Do youwant me to try and patch you?#76Ok, but don't blame me if something goes wrong...--- POOF ---You are engulfed in a cloud of thick orange smoke, andyou emerge coughing and gasping, and find that ...#77You clumsy oaf, you've done it again!I don't know how long I can keep this up ...#78I'm all out of orange smoke, and you've used up allyour available lives.  Better luck next time!#79The nest of golden eggs has vanished!#80A little dwarf just walked around a corner, threw a little axeat you which missed, cursed, and ran away.#81The nest of golden eggs has re-appeared!#200You are in a forest, with trees all around you.#205You have walked up a hill, still in the forest.The road slopes back down the other side of the hill.  There is a building in the distance.#206You are standing at the end of a road before a small brickbuilding.  Around you is a forest.  A small stream flows outof the building and down a gulley.#207You are inside a building, a well house for a large spring.#208You are in a valley in the forest beside a streamtumbling along a rocky bed.#209At your feet all the water of the stream splashes into a2-inch slit in the rock.  Downstream the streambed is bare rock.#210You are in a 20 foot depression floored with bare dirt.Set into the dirt is a strong steel grate mounted in concrete.A dry streambed leads into the depression.#211You are in a small chamber beneath a 3x3 steel grate to the surface.  A low crawl over cobbles leads inward to the west.#212You are crawling over cobbles in a low passage.  There is a dimlight at the east end of the passage.#213You are in a debris room filled with stuff washed in from thesurface.  A low wide passage with cobbles becomes plugged withmud and debris here, but an awkward canyond leads upward and west.  A note on the wall says "Magic Word Xyzzy".#214You're in a awkward sloping east/west canyon.#215You're in a splendid chamber thirty feet high.  The walls arefrozen rivers of orange stone.  An awkward canyon and a goodpassage exit from the east and west sides of the chamber.#216At your feet is a small pit breathing traces of white mist.  Aneast passage ends here except for a small crack leading on.Rough stone steps lead down the pit.#217You are at one end of a vast hall stretching forward out ofsight to the west.  There are openings to either side.  Nearby,a wide stone staircase leads downward.  The hall is filled withwisps of white mist swaying to and frow almost as if alive.  A cold wind blows up the staircase.  There is a passageat the top of a dome behind you.Rough stone steps lead to the top of the dome.#218This is a low room with a crude note on the wall.  The note says,"You won't get it up the steps!"#219You are on the east band of a fissure sliding clear across thehall.  The mist is quite thick here, and the fissure is too wide to jump.  #220You are on the west side of the fissure in the hall of mists.#221You are at the west end of the hall of mists.  A low wide crawlcontinues west and another goes north.  To the south is a littlepassage six feet off the floor.#222You are in the hall of the Mountain King, with passages offin all directions.#223You are in the south side chamber.#224You are in the west side chamber of the hall of the MountainKing.  A passage continues west and up here.#225You are in a low N/S passage at a hole in the floor.  The hole goes down to an E/W passage.#226You are in a large room, with a passage to the south, a passageto the west, and a hall of broken rock to the east.  There is alarge "y2" on a rock in the room's center.#227You're at a low window overlooking a huge pit which extends out of sight.  A floor is indistinctly visible over 50feet below.  Traces of white mist cover the floor of the pit, becoming thicker to the right.  Marks in the dust around thewindow would seem to indicate that someone has been here recently. Directly across the pit from you and 25 feet away thereis a similar window looking into a lighted room. A shadowy figurecan be seen there peering back at you.The shadowy figure seems to be trying to attractyour attention.#228The passage here is blocked by a recent cavein.#229You are at the east end of a very long hall apparently withoutside chambers.  To the east a low wide crawl slants up.  Tothe north a round two foot hole slants down.#230You are at the west end of a very long featureless hall.  Thehall joins up with a narrow north/south passage.#231You are at a crossover of a high N/S passage and a low E/Wone.#232Dead end.#233You are in a dirty broken passage.  To the east is a crawl.  To the west is a large passage.  Above you is a hole to anotherpassage.#234You are on the brink of a small clean climbable pit.  A passageleads west.#235You are at the bottom a small clean pit.  A stream flows out ahole and through some small slits in the bottom of the pit.#236You are in a large room full of dusty rocks.  There is a big holein the floor.  There are cracks everywhere, and a passage leadingeast.#237You are at a complex junction. A low hands and knees passage fromthe north joins a higher crawl from the east to make a walkingpassage going west.  There is also a large room above.  The air is damp here.#238You are in an anteroom leading to a large passage to the east.  Small passages go west and up.  The remnants of recent diggings are evident .  A sign hanging in midair says "Cove under construction beyond this point, proceed at your own risk(Witt Construction Company.)"#239You are at Witt's end, with passages off in all directions.#240You are in a large room carved out of sedimentary rock.  Thefloor and walls are littered with bits of shells imbedded intothe stone.  A shallow passage proceeds downward in a somewhatsteeper one leads up.  A low hands and knees passage enters from the south.#241You are in an arched hall.  A coral passage once continuedup and east from here, but is now blocked by debris.  The airsmells of sea water.#242You are in a long sloping corridor with rugged sharp walls.#243You are in a cul-de-sac about eight feet across.#244You are in a bed quilt, along east/west passage with holes every-where.  To explore at random, select up, down, north or south.#245You are in a room whose walls resemble swiss cheese.  Obvious passages go west, east, northeast, and northwest.  Part of theroom is occupied by a large bedrock.#246You are in the soft room.  The walls are covered with heavycurtains, the floor with a thick pile carpet.  Moss covers theceiling.#247You are at the east end of a two pit room.  The floor hereis littered with thin rock slabs, which make it easy to descendthe pits.  There is a path here bypassing the pits to connectpassages from east and west.  There are holes all over, butthe only big one is on the wall directly over the west pit where you can't get to it.#248You are at the west end of the two pit room.  There is a largehole in the wall above the pit at this end of the room.#249You are at the bottom of the eastern pit in the two pit room.There is a small pool of oil in one corner of the pit.#250You are in the bottom of the western pit in the two pit room.There is a large hole directly above you.#251You are in a large low circular chamber whose floor is animmense slab fallen from the ceiling (slab room).  East andwest there once were large passages, but they are now filledwith boulders.  Low small passages go north and south, andthe south one quickly bends west around the boulders.#252This is the oriental room.  Ancient oriental cave drawings coverthe wall.  A gently sloping passage leads upward to the north,another passage leads southeast, and a hands and knees crawlleads west.  #253You are in a large low room.  Crawls lead north, S/E, and S/W.#254You are in a long winding corridor sloping out of sight inboth directions.  A cold wind blows up the corridor.  #255Dead end crawl.#256You are following a wide path around the outer edge of a largecavern.  Far below, through a heavy white mist strange splashingnoises can be heard.  The mist rises up through a fissure inin the ceiling.  The path exits to the south and west.#257You are in an alcove.  A small NW path seems to widen aftera short distance. An extremely tight tunnel leads east.  It lookslike a very tight squeeze.  An eerie light can be seen at theother end.  #258You are in a room lit by an eerie green light emanating from thewalls.  An extremely tight tunnel leads east, and a dark corridorlies to the northeast.  #259You are in the dark room.  A corridor leading south is theonly exit.  A massive stone tablet embedded in the wall reads:"Congratulations on bringing light into the dark room."#260You are on one side of a large, deep chasm.  A heavy whitemist rising up from below obscures all view of the far side. A southwest path leads away.  A rickety wooden bridge extendsacross the chasm, vanishing into the mist.  A sign posted onthe bridge reads, "Stop! Pay troll!"  #261You are on the far side of the chasm.  A northeast pathleads away from the chasm on this side.  A rickety woodenbridge extends across the chasm, vanishing into the gloom.A sign posted on the bridge reads, "Stop.  Pay troll!"#262You are in a long east/west corridor.  A faint rumblingnoise can be heard in the distance.#263The path forks here.  The left fork leads northeast.  Adull rumbling seems to get louder in that direction.  The maincorridor enters from the west.#264You are walking along a gently sloping north/south passagelined with oddly shaped limestone formations.#265The walls are quite worn here.  From the north can beheard a steady roar, so loud that the entire cave seemsto be trembling.  Another passage leads south, and a lowcrawl goes east.#266You are in a small chamber filled with large boulders.The walls are very warm, causing the air in the room tobe almost stifling from the heat.  The only exit is a crawlheading west, through which is coming a low rumbling.#267You are on the edge of a breathtaking view.  Far below youis an active volcano, from which great gouts of molten lavacomes surging out, cascading back into the depths.  Theglowing rock fills the farthest reaches of the cavern witha blood red glare, giving everything an eerie, macabreappearance.  The air is filled with flickering sparks of ash and a heavy smell of brimstone.  The walls are hot tothe touch, and the thundering of the volcano drowns out allother sounds.  Embedded in the jagged rock far over head aremyriad twisted formations composed of pure white alibaster, which scatter the murky light into sinister apparitionsupon the walls.  To one side is a deep gorge, filled with a bizarre chaos of tortured rock which seems to have beencrafted by the devil himself!  An immense river of firecrashes out from the depths of the volcano, burns its waythrough the gorge, and plummets into a bottomless pit faroff to your left.  To the right, an immense geyser of blistering steam erupts continuously from a barren islandin the center of a sulphurous lake which bubbles ominously.The far right wall is aflame with an incandescence of its own,which lends an additional infernal splendor to the alreadyhellish scene.  A dark, foreboding passage exits to thesouth.#268You are standing at the entrance to a large barren room.A sign posted above the entrance reads "Caution! Bear inroom!"#269You are inside a barren room.  The center of the room iscompletely empty except for some dust.  Marks in the dustlead away toward the far end of the room.  The only exit is the way you came in.#270You are in a long, narrow corridor stretching out of sightto the west.  At the eastern end is a hole through whichyou can see a profusion of leaves.#271You are in a giant room.  The ceiling here is too high up for your lamp to show it.  Cavernous passages lead east,north, and south.On the west wall is scrawled the inscription:"Fee Fie Foe Foo" (sic)#272The passage here is blocked by a recent cave in.#273You are at one end of an immense N/S passage.#274You are in a magnificent cavern with a rushing stream, which cascades over a sparkling waterfall into a roaringwhirlpool which disappears through a hole in the floor.Passages exit to the south and west.#275You are  at the top of a steep incline above a large room.You could climb down here, but you would not be ableto climb back up.  There is a passage leading back to thenorth.#276You are in a secret N/S canyon above a sizable passage.#277A large stalactite extends from the roof and almost reachesthe floor below.  You could climb down it, and jump fromit to the floor, but having done so you would be unable to reach it to climb back up.The maze continues at this level.#278You are in a secret canyon at a junction of three canyons,bearing north, south, and SE.  The north one is as tall as the other two combined.#279You are in a secret N/S canyon above a large room.#280You are in a north/south canyon about 25 feet across.  Thefloor is covered by white mist seeping in from thenorth.  The walls extend upward for well over 100 feet.Suspended from some unseen point far above you, an enormoustwo-sided mirror is hanging parallel to and midwaybetween the canyon walls.  (The mirror is obviously providedfor use by the dwarves, who, as you know, are extremelyvain.)  A small window can be seen in either wall, somefifty feet up.#281You are at the edge of a large underground reservoir.  Anopaque cloud of white mist fills the room and rises rapidlyupward.  The lake is fed by a stream which tumbles out of a hole in the wall about 10 feet overhead and splashesnoisily into the water somewhere within the mist.  Theonly passage goes back toward the south.#282You are in a secret canyon with exits to north and east.#283You are in a secret E/W canyon above a tight canyon.#284You are in a wide place in a very tight N/S canyon.#285The canyon here becomes too tight to go on.#286You are in a tall E/W canyon.  A low crawl goes three feetnorth and seems to open up.#287The canyon runs into a maze of boulders -- dead end.#288You are in a maze of twisty little tunnels, all alike.#289You are near a large pit beside a large orange stalactitein the maze.  The stalactite is about 30 feet long, allowing you to descend it.  However, due to the smoothness of thestalactite, you will probably be unable to climb back up again.#300Dead end.#401Welcome to adventure!  Would you like instructions?#402Somewhere nearby is Colossal Cave, where many have found goldand treasure, though it is rumored that some who enter are neverseen again.  I will be your eyes and hands.  Direct me withcommands such as get, take, or look.  Since you need to movearound, you must usually enter compass directions (N, NE, E,SE, S, SW, W, NW, or up and down), although you maysometimes use more vague verbs with which to move.  I knowof several objects in this game, such as a lamp and bottle.I also know of special objects in the case. Some of these objectshave side effects, i.e., there is a rod in the cave that scares a little bird.--------------------------------------------------------------The object of this game is to gather as many treasures asyou can and put them back in the house.  You also run the risk ofgetting robbed or killed by some rather unfriendly inhabitantsof the cave.--------------------------------------------------------------There are some useful commands that you should know about+--- Brief, Long, and Short - these commands control the    amount of detail you get in descriptions.--- Look (or L) - gives a detaiailed description of your    surroundings.--- Inventory (or I) - tells you what you are carrying.--- Quit, Stop, or End - these are self explanatory.--- Save - by typing this, you may save your game and    continue it at a later time.--- Continue - lets you continue an old game.--- Score - tells you how well you are doing.Other helpful functions include:*Multiple commands on one input line, i.e.:"Go south.  Get car, keys.  Start car.  "(example only)--------------------------------------------------------------"Adventure" is a version of the game created by WillieCrowther and Don Woods at M.I.T.--------------------------------------------------------------#403I'm sorry, but the magazine is written in Dwarvish.