You're in a forest.You're in a forest.You're in a forest.You're in a forest.You're at a hill at the end of the road.You're at road near house.You're inside house.You're beside a stream in the valley.You're near the slit in the streambed.You're directly above a grate in a dry streambed.You are below the grate.You're in a cobble crawl.You're in the debris room.You are in an awkward sloping east/west canyon.You're in the bird chamber.You're at top of small pit.You're in hall of mists.You're in the nugget of gold room.You're on east side of fissure.You're on the west side of fissure.You're at the west end of hall of mists.You're in the hall of the Mountain King.You're in the south chamber.You're in the west chamber.You are at a N/S passage at a hole in the floor.You're at "Y2"You are near a window overlooking the pit.The passage here is blocked by a recent cave-in.You're at east end of a long hall.You're at west end of a long hall.You are at a crossover of a high N/S canyon and a low E/W one.Dead end.You are in a dirty broken passage.You're at the brink of a small pit.You are in a little pit which has a stream flowing through it.You are in a room full of dusty rocks.You're at a complex junction.You are in the anteroom.You're at Witt's End, with passages off in all directions.You are in the shell room.You are in the arched hall.You are in a steep sloping corridor.You are in a cul-de-sac about 8 feet across.You are in a bedquilt.This is the swiss cheese room.You are in the soft room.You're at east end of a two pit room.You're in the east pit.You're in the west pit.You're in the slab room.This is the oriental rom.You are in a large low room.You are in a sloping corridor.You are at dead end of a crawl.You are in a misty cavern.You are in an alcove.  A green glow comes from the east.You are in the plover room.You're in a dark room.You are on the SW side of the troll's bridge.You are on the NE side of the troll's bridge.You are in a E/W corridor.You're at a fork in the path.You are in a N/S limestone passage.You're at a junction with warm walls.You are in the chamber of boulders.You're at a breath-taking view.You are outside a barren room.You are inside a barren room.You're in a long narrow E/W corridor.You're in the giant room.The passage here is blocked by a recent cave-in.You are at one end of an immense N/S passageway.You're in a cavern with a waterfall.You are at the top of a steep incline above a large room.You are in a secret N/S canyon above a sizable passage.You are at top of a stalactite.You are at the junction of three secret canyons.You are in a secret N/S canyon above a large room.You are in the canyon with the mirror.You are at the underground reservoir.You are in a secret canyon with exits to N and E.You are in a secret E/W canyon above a tight canyon.You are at awide place in a very tight N/S canyon.The canyon becomes too tight to continue.You are in a tall E/W canyon.The canyon runs into a mass of boulders--dead end.You are in a maze of twisty little tunnels, all alike.You are in a maze of twisty little tunnels, all alike.You are in a maze of twisty little tunnels, all alike.You are in a maze of twisty little tunnels, all alike.You are in a maze of twisty little tunnels, all alike.You are in a maze of twisty little tunnels, all alike.You are in a maze of twisty little tunnels, all alike.You are in a maze of twisty little tunnels, all alike.You are in a maze of twisty little tunnels, all alike.You are in a maze of twisty little tunnels, all alike.You are at a huge orange stalactite in the maze.You are in a maze of twisty little tunnels, all alike.You are at a dead end.